# Introduction to Talking Points

I have lots of strong opinions. So do lots of people. I know this for a fact
because so many of the people that I interact with on a daily basis, both
physically (at my home or office, and around me in public places) and
virtually (on my social media feeds), share these opinions. I think that's
great; sharing our opinions is a fundamental part of human interaction, and
our happiness as individuals and success as a society depends on it!

Where I have a problem, though, is when our strong opinions cloud our
judgement. Whether or not we realize it, I think we are all guilty of this, at
least to a certain extent. After all, it's very easy to misrepresent certain
facts or disregard them altogether when these facts don't validate our
opinions.  This is especially true in the information age, when we can stick
our heads in the sands of only those sources of facts and figures that align
most closely with our worldview and ignore or dismiss everything else.

Like I said, I'm as guilty of this as anybody. When I read an article, see a
Facebook post, or overhear a statement in a coffeeshop touting a position I
disagree with, my instinct is to seek out a website I *know* will back me up
and bask in the comfort and security of validation. That's where this blog
comes in: I wanted a platform in which to explore such opinions as impartially
as possible. I guess this is like my own personal PolitiFact, just wildly
understaffed (i.e. just me, and maybe a friend or two willing to proofread)
and specifically focused on opinions that I *personally* am inclined to
disagree with. Through this blog, I hope to improve my own understanding of
controversial issues, and while I'm at it, to practice my writing and research
skills. 

Such an undertaking may seem a little arrogant. You may be thinking, "Who does
he think he is to judge fact from fiction and claim his judgement is the most
impartial?" I will be the first to admit that I am no expert in the issues
I'll be writing about. And I not only encourage but actively request that
people who think I'm misrepresenting the facts, omitting important details, or
just generally talking nonesense to respond critically to my posts.
Inevitably, my independent research will only get me so far, and I've always
found that confrontation has the potential to bring out the best in opposing
sides. So please, *please* poke holes in my arguments, challenge the validity
of my facts, and generally harass these posts in every way you can! It's the
best way for us all to get closer to the truth!

Happy reading!
