# "Schoolroom Climate Change Indoctrination": A Response

## Background

In a [recent article in the Wall Street
Journal][www.wsj.com/articles/schoolroom-climate-change-indoctrination-143276711],
Paul H. Tice criticized the inclusion of what he calls "politically correct
climate-change orthodoxy" in the US Federal Common Core educational standards.
The standards in question are the [Next Generation of Science Standards
(NGSS)][www.nextgenscience.org/next-generation-science-standards], which, as
of July 2015, have been adopted by 13 states (with 40 states supposedly
showing interest) and prominently include anthropogenic climate change as a
major topic. Here are the relevant standards at the
[middle][www.nextgenscience.com/msess3-earth-human-activity] and [high
school][www.nextgenscience.com/hsess3-earth-human-activity] levels. In a
nutshell, Tice argues that these topics misrepresent the facts and fail to
address legitimate scientific criticisms of climate change, thereby missing an
opportunity to "provide an example of the scientific method in action."

What I'd like to do in this post is to assess the validity of several specific
questions he raises about climate change, not least because they are
frequently echoed by other climate-change skeptics. And away we go!

1. *"Why has the planet inconveniently stopped warming since the late 1990s
even as carbon dioxide levels have continued to rise?"*

The way I see it, this critique has two parts: First, the causal link between
rising CO2 and warming, and second, inconsistent evidence of warming in the
last 25 years.

* **The causal link: How does rising CO2 cause atmospheric warming?** Here's a
  simple explanation from the [NASA Earth
  Observatory][earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/GlobalWarming/page2.php]:

  > Earth's temperature begins with the Sun. Roughly 30 percent of incoming
  > sunlight is reflected back into space by bright surfaces like clouds and
  > ice. Of the remaining 70 percent, most is absorbed by the land and ocean,
  > and the rest is absorbed by the atmosphere. The abosrbed solar energy
  > heats our planet.
  >
  > As the rocks, the air, and the seas warm, they radiate "heat" energy
  > (thermal infrared radiation). From the surface, this energy travels into
  > the atmosphere where much of it is absorbed by water vapor and long-lived
  > greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane.

  This is a critical point, so I'd like to pause to point those of you that
  are interested to more details on how this process works: a [brief
  explanation][scied.ucar.edu/carbon-dioxide-absorbs-and-re-emits-infrared-radiation]
  of CO2 absorption from the University Center for Atmospheric Research (UCAR)
  Center for Science Education, and a [much more exhaustive explanation
  ][www.acs.org/content/acs/en/climatescience/greenhousegases/properties.html]
  from the American Chemical Society (ACS). Anyway, moving on with NASA...

  > When they absorb the energy radiating from Earth's surface, microscopic
  > water or greenhouse gas molecules turn into tiny heaters-- like the bricks
  > in a fireplace, they radiate heat even after the fire goes out. They
  > radiate in all directions. The energy that radiates back toward Earth
  > heats both the lower atmosphere and the surface, enhancing the heating
  > they get from direct sunlight.

  
